[DRAFT] Create new-idp-requirements.md (#1447)
sigstore/fulcio: docs/new-idp-requirements.md

# New IDP Requirements

## Summary

This document describes the minimum requirements for adding a new IDP (Identity Provider) to the Sigstore Public Good Deployment.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: We should also mention that we reserve the right to remove your identity provider from the public instance if it's found to cause technical issues or has security vulnerabilities.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", and "MAY" in this document are
to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

A new IDP must meet the following requirements:

> - MUST host a `/.well-known/openid-configuration` file.

Reviewer: And add "that conforms to the OpenID standard for this file"

> - MUST have a documented key rotation policy.

Reviewer: I'm not sure our existing ones have this publicly documented. This should be a MAY and maybe say "SHOULD have a plan in place for key rotation in the case of compromise" - Again, stressing we're looking for serious IDPs

> - MUST have a documented signing key storage policy.

Reviewer: I don't think we can require this for the same above reason, so let's have this be a may or should and the MUST is having a secured signing key

- MUST maintain an uptime requirement of `99.5%`.
- MUST challenge the email address as an OIDC provider.

> - MUST prevent identity subject reuse.

Reviewer: An interesting bit here is discussing immutable vs mutable identifiers. For example, you can give up your GitHub username, but your GitHub user ID remains static. But writing policy is far easier with the former. We should expand on some examples here.

- MUST have a configurable audience (`aud`) for the token, setting the audience to `sigstore`.
- MUST support the following claims:
  - `issuer`
  - `subject`
  - `audience`

>   - `issued at`

Reviewer: let's say `iat` (issued at) and `exp` (expiration)

>   - `expiration`

Reviewer: Also "MUST provide a contact during initial configuration that can be used for outreach for issues"

>   - `expiration`

Reviewer: Should also mention that based on the oidc.md docs, other claims may be required, especially for CI providers

# New IDP Requirements

## Summary

This document describes the minimum requirements for adding a new IDP (Identity Provider) to the Sigstore Public Good Deployment.

Adding a new IDP option to Fulcio helps drive adoption of signing and verification for software artifacts using Sigstore Public Good. Because identity is a critical component of the system, it's important that new IDPs meet the minimum set of requirements to ensure the security and reliability of the system.

You should also reference the [Fulcio - ODIC.md](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio/blob/main/docs/oidc.md) documentation for additional requirements for the type of IDP you're looking to integrate. The current two likely types of IDPs are:

> - `Email`    - Email-based OIDC providers use the user’s email as the subject of the certificate.

Reviewer: Can we change this to also mention service accounts? It can either be user-based authentication or machine identity for SAs

Author: I think I captured what you're looking for but let me know if not

> - `Workflow` - Workflow-based OIDC providers are used with systems such as CI/CD pipelines. These providers will require more onboarding and you should [file an issue](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio/issues) to discuss the requirements for a specific system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Workflow` - Workflow-based OIDC providers are used with systems such as CI/CD pipelines, such as GitHub Actions or GitLab CI. These providers will require more onboarding and you should [file an issue](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio/issues) to discuss the requirements for a specific system.
```

Reviewer: Just adding an example

## Requirements

> > The Sigstore Project reserves the right to remove your identity provider from the deployment if it is found to cause technical issues, does not meet the requirements outlined in this document, or if it is deemed to be a security risk to the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The Sigstore Project reserves the right to remove your identity provider from the deployment if it is found to cause technical issues, does not meet the requirements outlined in this document, or if it is deemed to be a security risk to the ecosystem and users.
```

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", and "MAY" in this document are
to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

A new IDP must meet the following requirements:

- MUST host a `/.well-known/openid-configuration` file that conforms to the OpenID standard for this file.
- SHOULD have a documented key rotation policy.
- SHOULD have a plan in place for key rotation in the case of compromise.
- SHOULD have a documented signing key storage policy.

> - MUST have a secure signing key.

Reviewer: Sorting nit: Can this be moved up above the last three SHOULDs? Then there's a grouping of MUSTs to SHOULDs for key policy
